so for me my journey into the Halo
universe started with the release of the
first game and I remember I was actually
working overtime at Electronic Arts and
I was working really late and I went out
and I picked up this game I thought I
was just gonna play for a couple of
hours and then go home and ended up
staying up all night at the office and
finishing the game from beginning to end
I was completely obsessed with it and
then as soon as I finished it I was dead
tired it was the next morning and I
started it again I mean I was that taken
by by the universe and I think a lot of
that is just the epic sci-fi nature of
the Halo universe and the first time
they actually set foot on the Halo and
just the size and scale of it all and it
just felt bigger than I could possibly
hold and in my head and as a game
designer really experiencing the the
kind of sandbox to stomach nature of the
gameplay approach was really inspiring I
could sort of deconstruct all the
different systems in the way that Bungie
had crafted that experience and and so
as a game designer it was really really
inspiring to me so when I came to three
for three there are a bunch of different
reasons why I wanted to come to the
studio first and foremost I was driven
by a love of Halo I was also drawn by
that just the level of talent that we
had here and when I came we only had I
think maybe 30 people but there were 30
of the the most talented people that you
can imagine from all across this
industry and everyone had been brought
together by their shared love and
passion for Halo and the challenge that
the studio was taking on was really
incredibly ambitious and some might even
say crazy and that was really attractive
to me the the idea of trying to create a
studio from scratch and bring all of
these people together from across the
industry to ship the next great title in
one of the greatest series of games that
has ever been made there's nothing more
ambitious than that and and that was
really motivating so when I think about
Halo the things that really stand out to
me as being core tenant so
of the franchise and the universe is you
know first and foremost a sense of
heroism
I think the Master Chief is a perfect
embodiment of that of that concept of
heroism I think the sense of wonder the
sense of mystery that there's a massive
universe out there that's filled with
things that are beyond our comprehension
things that you know we could only hope
to try and barely scratch the surface of
another big one for me is creativity the
fact that halo supports creativity in
the way that you play as a player it
doesn't tell players hey you have to do
it this way it says here here's a bunch
of different tools here's an obstacle
that you have to overcome you figure it
out you figure out your own solution put
these things together and choose your
own way and so it's it's empowering
players to make choices that are then
rewarded through game play and to be
creative in combat but more than that I
think if you look at the history of the
franchise its rewarded creativity in
other ways it's rewarded creativity with
forge with with save films allowing
players to create their own experiences
and tell their own stories and share
that with people
another part of Halo that I always talk
about which is there's a belief in the
potential of humanity and I think this
is kind of really important because halo
has a kind of a hopeful feel to it and I
think you could tell a lot of the
stories that take place in the Halo
universe and tell them in a more cynical
light and it would feel completely
different and part of that hopefulness
is this belief that humanity is
predestined to achieve something greater
and and that humanity something worth
fighting for and so those are all kind
of things that I think that are really
key to halo and things that that we
absolutely need to preserve when I came
to 343 and we were assembling the team
here one of the biggest challenges that
we faced was trying to find the balance
between our reverence for the Halo
universe and the work that had been done
there
and the desire to kind of live up to all
of these expectations that the community
of gamers might have for us and
our desire to take risks and and change
things and drive things forward and
ultimately we had to give ourselves
permission to take those risks so I
think one of the areas with Halo 4 that
we're really trying to push beyond where
halo has been in the past is where we
have a much clearer focus in terms of
storytelling and character development
and if you look at you know past Halo
games I think the Master Chief has has
been in some ways he's an amazing hero
but he has been treated almost as a
vessel for the player to sort of pour
themselves into and when you look at a
lot of the the surrounding fiction
that's been written the Master Chief
John has been explored in much more
detail and and that's something that
really hasn't come through in the games
and that's something that we very much
want to bring forth through the campaign
of Halo fours is examine Master Chief as
a human being
put him in new situations force him to
face new threats and new challenges that
are maybe pushing him to the edge of his
capabilities in a way that he's never
been pushed before and through that
process kind of redefined who he is as a
human being and a hero and and so
there's a lot of focus from our team in
the story that we want to tell and
telling that in a deeper more
character-driven manner and so for me
players that play through the campaign
of Halo 4 my hope is that they they come
away with with a much deeper sense of
emotional impact as a result of that
story